EverBlu Cyble
Enhanced
EverBlu Cyble Enhanced has been designed to fulfi ll requirements of all water management utilities
willing to remote read their water & gas meters by radio a fi xed network to improve their productivity
and sell extra services to their customers.
The EverBlu wireless fi xed data collection EverBlu Cyble Enhanced Working » Tampering alarms
system is suitable for any meter type Technologies » End of battery lifetime indicator
(Water, Gas, Heat and Cooling) and for » The Itron patented and proven Cyble
» Water intelligence alarms:
various site topologies, either in urban, technology guarantees the transmitted
• meter oversized
suburban or rural environments. index reliability.
• meter undersized
EverBlu Cyble Enhanced creates a set » The RADIAN technology is the most
of granular data that is automatically open radio protocol, resulting from the • meter blocked
communicated daily to the utility back- work of a European user group. • peakfl ow
offi ce server. Its radio function remains
Data from EverBlu Cyble Enhanced
on duty during working hours to reply to Ease of Installation
can also be collected using AnyQuest,
on-request reads from utility operators. The EverBlu Cyble Enhanced is the Itron mobile reading solution. Thus
To secure data transmission and completely compatible with all Itron water allowing dual-mode collection systems
avoid radio signal collisions, the meters (from15 to 500 mm) & gas meters or free migration from walk-by to fi xed
EverBlu MIU combines special equipped with a Cyble target register. network systems.
communication algorithms and daily clock This compact module can be easily fi xed
synchronization with the network. In case directly on the meter, without requiring Consistent Reliability
of communication failure caused by radio any wiring nor wall mounting. » The Cyble concept ensures the perfect
disturbances, the EverBlu MIU stores
It can be shipped from the factory already correlation between the meter register
meter information and automatically re-
mounted (and confi gured) on to the and the internal electronic index (taking
attempts data transmission several times
meter. As a stand alone it can be quickly accidental backfl ows into account).
during the current day and the next day.
retrofi tted to meters installed in the fi eld » The electronic unit is encapsulated to
without breaking any seals. protect it from harsh environment and
BENEFITS OF WIRELESS SOLUTION
water immersion effects.
» Automatic radio meter reading Advanced Functions
» The EverBlu Cyble Enhanced case is
increases the reading reliability and
EverBlu Cyble Enhanced provides made of carbon fi bers, which makes it
signifi cantly enhances the data
powerful smart functions, adding value for resistant to shocks and UV-light.
acquisition speed.
your customers:
» The RADIAN technology gives the
» The radio reading also opens
» Daily 24 hourly index. best radio communication even in
accessibility to all meters even if the
» Daily leakage alarm congested areas.
customer is absent or in hard to read
locations. » Daily backfl ow alarm
SYSTEM knowledge to shape your future

Radio Frequency Features
Protocol RADIAN / EverBlu
Modulation Frequency Shift Keying
Frequency carrier 433.82 MHz
Radiated power ≤ 10 mW
Transmission Symetrical 2-way communication
Functional Specifi cations
Dimensions 92 x 57 x 50 mm
Power source Lithium batterie
Battery typical lifetime* 15 years / 10 years in fi xed network mode
Case protection IP68
Relative humidity 0 to 100% - submersible EverBlu Cyble Enhanced fi tted on Residential
Operating temperature** -10°C / +55°C*** water meter
Accidental temperature -20°C / +70°C
Conformity certifi ed, in accordance with the European R&TTE directive
(1999/5/EC)
* Under normal applications within the specifi ed operating temperature range.
** High Temperature (HT) version also available on request.
*** Operation: +5°C to +35°C / Storage: +5°C to +35°C / Transport: Min. -20°C (< 24 hours continuous), Max. +70°C (< 24 hours
continuous) / Min. operational temperature: -10°C (< 15 days/years) / Max. operational temperature: +55°C (< 15 days/years).
Application
The EverBlu Cyble Enhanced is suited to various applications for residential, commercial and
industrial uses.
EverBlu Cyble Enhanced fi tted on
Commercial and Industrial water meter
FTP Server EverBlu Software Billing system / Data Center
Our company is the world’s leading provider of smart metering, data collection and utility software systems, with over
8,000 utilities worldwide relying on our technology to optimize the delivery and use of energy and water.
To realize your smarter energy and water future, start here: www.itron.com
For more information, contact your local sales representative or agency: ITRON WATER METERING
9, rue Ampère
71031 Mâcon cedex
France
Phone: +33 3 85 29 39 00
Fax: +33 3 85 29 38 58
While Itron strives to make the content of its marketing materials as timely and accurate as possible, Itron makes no claims, promises, or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness,
or adequacy of, and expressly disclaims liability for errors and omissions in, such materials. No warranty of any kind, implied, expressed, or statutory, including but not limited to
the warranties of non-infringement of third party rights, title, merchantability, and fitness for a particular purpose, is given with respect to the content of these marketing materials.
© Copyright 2011, Itron. All rights reserved. SYS-0024.3-EN-09.11

