AnyQuest / EverBlu
Option Board
Radio Module for Remote Heat, Cooling & Water Meter Reading
The AnyQuest / EverBlu option board has been designed to fulfi l the requirement of
utilities and service companies willing to remote read their heat, cooling and water
meters by radio in Mobile or Fixed Network in order to improve their productivity and sell
extra services to their customers.
As heat, cooling and water meters are Compatibility Powerful and Advanced Features
an important investment for utilities, the The AnyQuest / EverBlu option board is » AnyQuest
complete Itron CF-family of ultrasonic heat compatible to all Itron heat, cooling and Managed by the RF reading software,
and cooling meter as well as calculators water meters of the latest CF-family range multiple data frames could be selected:
for split meters and the Echodis of products:
water meters could be pre-equipped Heat & Cooling Echodis
» CF Echo II (standard frame)*
considering actual or future evolutions
» CF 51 calculator - Energy Index
towards remote reading technologies.
- Volume - Flow
» CF 55 calculator - Power - Operating
FEATURES AND BENEFITS - Instant Flow Time
» CF 800 calculator - Return & Flow temperature - Alarms
» Ease of Installation - Alarms
» Echodis
» Consistent Reliability » EverBlu
For retrofi t of meters already installed in
» Advanced functions the fi eld the board can easily be mounted Heat & Cooling Echodis
» Compatible with EverBlu Fixed Network in the meters option board slot. (standard frame)*
- Energy - 24 hourly
» Compatible with AnyQuest Mobile - Volume index
Consistent reliability
solution - Power - Alarms
The AnyQuest / EverBlu option board is - Instant Flow
- Return & Flow temperature
Benefi ts of Wireless Solution directly interfaced with the calculators - Cooling Energy
micro processor. This guarantees the - Alarms
» Automatic radio meter reading
perfect correlation between the heat,
increases the reading reliability and
cooling and water meter values and the External water meter inputs
signifi cantly enhances the data
remote reading index. For combined heat, cooling and water-billing
acquisition speed.
The integrity and reliability of this data is applications, the option board also provides
» The radio reading opens accessibility
key for use in billing applications. two additional input registers for external
to all meters even in the customer is
The functionality of the AnyQuest / water meters with low frequency pulse
absent or in hard to read locations.
EverBlu option board is optimized for emitters. Each input can be programmed
billing purposes. By standard reading independently with a pulse value and meter
mode, an end of day value of the heat offset. The indexes of these two registers
meters registers is transmitted to the are automatically included in the standard
reading system. reading mode as well as in all fi xed date
reading frames.
SYSTEM knowledge to shape your future

Technical Specifi cations COMPATIBLE WITH ANYQUEST
Radio Frequency Features Itron offers a complete Mobile
Protocol RADIAN / EverBlu AMR solution including handheld
Modulation Frequency Shift Keying terminals, RF interfaces, reading- and
Frequency carrier 433,82 MHz routemanagement software as well as RF
Radiated power < 10 mW software drivers*.
Transmission Symmetrical 2-way communication
* see specifi c leafl ets.
Conformity Compliant with the European R&TTE directive 1999/5/EC
Using the integrated Itron route software
Functional Specifi cations in combination with the corresponding
Power supply 2 AA lithium battery pack or mains power supply handheld terminal, the reader can
Battery lifetime 10 years ergonomically collect meter data
Operating temperature 5°C - 55°C either from heat-, water-, gas- and
Storage temperature 0°C - 55°C electricitymeters by radio transmission or
Under normal applications with monthly reading cycle and within the specifi ed operating environment. by manual keying method.
Optional pulse input features
Available pulse values 1, 2.5, 10, 25, 100 and 250 litre
Characteristics Solid state switch, dry contact, reed switch
Contact voltage Typ. 3 V =
Maximum frequency 2 Hz
Minimum low state time 100 ms
Maximum on resistance 10kΩ
Maximum cable length 10 m
APPLICATION
Due to the wide range of meter types covering sizes from Qp 0,6 to Qp 250 the
AnyQuest / EverBlu option board is suited to various applications for residential,
commercial and industrial uses.
EverBlu Software FTP Server
Billing system / Data Center
Mobile reading Software
AnyQuest Mobile
AnyQuest handheld
PC software Utility mainframe
AnyQuest Host (billing system/customer
information system)
Our company is the world’s leading provider of smart metering, data collection and utility software systems, with over
8,000 utilities worldwide relying on our technology to optimize the delivery and use of energy and water.
To realize your smarter energy and water future, start here: www.itron.com
For more information, contact your local sales representative or agency: ITRON WATER METERING
9, rue Ampère
71031 Mâcon cedex
France
Phone: +33 3 85 29 39 00
Fax: +33 3 85 29 38 58
While Itron strives to make the content of its marketing materials as timely and accurate as possible, Itron makes no claims, promises, or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness,
or adequacy of, and expressly disclaims liability for errors and omissions in, such materials. No warranty of any kind, implied, expressed, or statutory, including but not limited to
the warranties of non-infringement of third party rights, title, merchantability, and fitness for a particular purpose, is given with respect to the content of these marketing materials.
© Copyright 2011, Itron. All rights reserved. SYS-0025.3-EN-09.11

